JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
President Trump
claims to be the victim of a
witch-hunt, as
the Justice Department appoints
a special
counsel to investigate possible
Russian ties
to the Trump campaign.
Then: We travel to Iran ahead of
a pivotal
presidential election there.
Plus: part two of our look at
how gender stereotypes
influence the jobs we take.
Meet the football coach who
teaches second
grade.
HAROLD JOHNSON, Elementary
School Teacher:
Everybody looking like, hey what
you doing
here?
You know, this isn't P.E. or
anything.
And I'm just like, I know.
It's reading and how to teach
kids how to
read.
And that's what I'm here for, to
learn that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
is rejecting
the need for an independent
investigator into
his alleged ties with Russia.
He's also again denying any
wrongdoing in
connection with Russia.
He spoke out today, as a newly
appointed special
counsel began looking into just
that.
William Brangham begins our
coverage.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
Well, I respect the move, but
the entire thing
has been a witch-hunt.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The
president's displeasure
with the naming of a special
counsel was crystal-clear
at his joint White House news
conference with
the visiting president of
Colombia.
DONALD TRUMP: There is no
collusion between
certainly myself and my
campaign.
But I can always speak for
myself and the
Russians.
Zero.
I think it divides the country.
I think we have a very divided
country because
of that and many other things.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In a sudden
shift last night,
Deputy Attorney General Rod
Rosenstein appointed
former FBI Director Robert
Mueller to investigate
Russian meddling in the
election, alleged
collusion with the Trump
campaign and any
other related matters that may
arise.
Rosenstein said he acted to
restore the public's
trust.
That trust was certainly tested
in a series
of bombshell developments in
recent days.
First, there was the president's
sudden firing
of FBI Director James Comey last
week, then
reports that Mr. Trump leaked
classified information
about the Islamic State group to
Russian diplomats,
and finally allegations that he
urged Comey
back in February to drop the
investigation
of Michael Flynn.
Flynn had just been fired as
national security
adviser for lying about his
contacts with
the Russians.
The president was asked directly
about Comey
today.
QUESTION: Did you at any time
urge former
FBI Director James Comey in any
way, shape
or form to close or to back down
the investigation
into Michael Flynn, and also as
you look...
DONALD TRUMP: No, no.
Next question.
QUESTION: As you look back over
the past six
months or year, have you had any
recollection
where you have wondered if
anything you have
done has been something that
might be worthy
of criminal charges?
DONALD TRUMP: I think it's
totally ridiculous.
Everybody thinks so.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Democrats had
for weeks
pressed for an independent
commission or special
counsel, and most welcomed
Mueller's selection.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: Mr.
Rosenstein has done the right
thing.
I applaud his decision for both
its correctness
and its courage.
I now have significantly greater
confidence
that the investigation will
follow the facts,
wherever they lead.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Most
Republicans had resisted
naming a special counsel, but,
today, House
Speaker Paul Ryan and others
applauded the
move.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: The
appointment of a special
counsel, I think,
helps assure people and the
Justice Department
that they are going to go do
their jobs independently
and thoroughly, which is what we
called for
all along.
SEN.
JOHN CORNYN (R), Texas: Robert
Mueller is
perhaps the single most
qualified individual
to lead such an investigation,
in my view,
and he's certainly independent.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Mueller ran
the FBI for
12 years, taking over just days
before the
9/11 attacks, and served both
Democratic and
Republican presidents.
Journalist Garrett Graff is the
author of
a Mueller biography.
GARRETT GRAFF, Journalist: Bob
Mueller's entire
history is as a tenacious
prosecutor.
And so he will follow the Russia
investigation
wherever it leads.
But the good news for Donald
Trump is, he's
also the only person perhaps in
America who
could end up declaring that
there's no there
there, and having people believe
that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Back at the
Capitol this
afternoon, Deputy Attorney
General Rosenstein
briefed the full Senate in a
closed session
on the firing of Comey and the
handling of
the Russia investigation.
Rosenstein wrote the memo that
the president
used as a basis to dismiss
Comey.
Missouri Democrat Claire
McCaskill says Rosenstein
acknowledged that the memo he
wrote on Comey
wasn't, in fact, what triggered
the firing.
SEN.
CLAIRE MCCASKILL (D), Missouri:
He did acknowledge
that he learned Comey would be
removed prior
to him writing his memo.
QUESTION: Say that again?
He what?
SEN.
CLAIRE MCCASKILL: He knew that
Comey was going
to be removed prior to him
writing his memo.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Republican
Lindsey Graham
praised the Mueller selection,
but also voiced
misgivings.
SEN.
LINDSEY GRAHAM (R), South
Carolina: You couldn't
have picked a better man to do
the job.
And I think most people in that
meeting are
generally OK with the idea of a
special counsel.
But what they don't quite
understand yet is
I think this has really limited
what Congress
can do.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All of this as
new revelations
surfaced about Michael Flynn.
The New York Times reports the
Trump transition
team knew Flynn was under
investigation weeks
before the inauguration for
secretly working
as a paid lobbyist for Turkey.
The McClatchy News Service
reported that,
during the transition, Flynn
blocked a military
plan against the Islamic State
that was opposed
by Turkey.
It was later approved after his
ouster.
And Reuters reports Flynn and
other Trump
campaign advisers had contact
with Russian
officials at least 18 times
during the last
seven months of the presidential
campaign.
Meanwhile, the House
Intelligence Committee
became the latest congressional
panel to ask
for more documents on the ouster
of Comey
and his conversations with the
president.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we turn now
to our Lisa
Desjardins on Capitol Hill and
John Yang at
the White House.
Lisa, I'm going to start with
you.
We were just hearing from those
senators as
they came out of the briefing
with the deputy
attorney general.
What more are you hearing from
that?
LISA DESJARDINS: Right, those
senators emerged
with one unified theme, that the
deputy attorney
general was a very cautious man.
And he, on many questions,
actually deferred,
saying he couldn't answer them,
that it was
up to the new special counsel,
Mueller.
Now, Judy, that left
Republicans, they said,
with a sense of confidence that
here was a
deputy attorney general who was
trying to
remove politics and Congress
from this investigation.
Democrats, however, they were
frustrated.
They said they're worried that,
as this goes
forward, they may not get many
details about
what is happening with this
investigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Lisa, other
questions
the senators were asking today?
LISA DESJARDINS: The big one.
They asked repeatedly, who told
Deputy Attorney
General Rosenstein to write that
letter about
why FBI Director Comey should be
fired?
They asked him again and again.
And we're told he didn't answer.
So it's a question still in the
air.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, John, at the
White House,
they were fielding questions
about a new FBI
director.
I know I was there.
The president had a session with
television
news anchors.
But, clearly, one of the
questions on their
mind is getting to the choice of
this new
FBI director.
JOHN YANG: That's right.
And at a photo opportunity with
the Colombian
president, he repeated what he
told you and
the other anchors at lunch, that
he expects
to name a new FBI director very
soon.
Now, he doesn't say exactly what
that means,
if that's going to be as soon as
before he
leaves on his first foreign trip
tomorrow
afternoon.
And aides say that he's holding
this rather
close to his vest, but he has
indicated that
Joe Lieberman is a leading
candidate.
Lieberman said that this is a
bit of a surprise
to him.
He came in, spoke to the
president yesterday
afternoon.
He said he didn't seek this,
that he had been
invited, he had been invited to
come speak
to the president just the day
before.
This wouldn't only be something
of a bipartisan
selection, but sort of a
pan-partisan selection.
He was, of course, Al Gore's
running mate
on the Democratic ticket in
2000.
He ran for reelection after
losing the Democratic
primary as an independent in
2006, and then,
2008, sort of broke with the
party, went to
the Republican Convention, and
endorsed John
McCain against President Barack
Obama's reelection
campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
Of course, Lieberman, a longtime
Democratic
senator from the state of
Connecticut.
So, Lisa, what's the reaction on
the Hill
to this talk?
LISA DESJARDINS: Right.
It's another one of these
reverse worlds.
The Democrats who would have
elected Lieberman
as vice president told me today
they're not
sure he should be FBI director.
They said again and again they
think it should
be someone who has never held
elected offices,
someone outside of politics.
Republicans, on the other hand,
say they love
the choice of Joe Lieberman.
In particular, John McCain said
on the question
of experience, quote to me: "Joe
Lieberman
has more experience than the
rest of my Democratic
colleagues combined, and you can
quote me."
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just quickly
to John, the
White House trying to turn the
focus today
to the president's overseas
trip, which starts
tomorrow.
JOHN YANG: This is a big trip,
eight days,
four nations, and sort of high
stakes any
time the president goes
overseas, but I think
for the first trip for a
president, it's always
closely watched.
The planning seems to be a
little ragged.
They have been having a little
trouble getting
the details, all the details
that the television
networks in particular need to
have in order
so that they can plan, so that
they can bring
the pictures of that trip back
to the United
States.
But ready or not, he leaves
tomorrow afternoon,
first stop, Saudi Arabia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will be
talking about
that some more in a few minutes.
John Yang at the White House,
Lisa Desjardins
at the Capitol, thank you.
And in the day's other news: The
chairman
of the House of Representatives
Oversight
Committee, Jason Chaffetz,
announced that
he's resigning from Congress at
the end of
June.
His decision came as the
committee is investigating
the Trump campaign's contacts
with Russia.
The Utah Republican said that he
wants to
spend more time with his family
and possibly
run for governor.
One person was killed and 22
hurt in New York's
Times Square today when a car
plowed into
pedestrians.
The driver, a 26-year-old Navy
veteran, was
taken into custody and underwent
tests for
alcohol and drugs.
The car drove the wrong way up a
street, and
then up on the sidewalk for
three blocks,
and finally came to rest with
two wheels in
the air.
Police said there's no
indication that terrorism
was involved.
The founder of FOX News, Roger
Ailes, died
today in Palm Beach, Florida,
several days
after hitting his head in a fall
in his home.
He transformed the business and
built the
network into a dominant
presence, but his
career ended in scandal.
P.J. Tobia has our report.
MAN: Today, America lost one of
its great
patriotic warriors.
P.J. TOBIA: FOX News Channel
announced the
death of the cable network's
longtime leader.
MAN: He has dramatically and
forever changed
the political and the media
landscape singlehandedly
for the better.
Neither will ever be the same
again, as he
was a true American original.
P.J. TOBIA: Ailes left a huge
imprint on both
American politics and media.
He created the 24-hour FOX News
network in
1996 from scratch to compete
with CNN and
other TV networks he saw as too
liberal.
Within a few short years, FOX
dominated cable
and helped shape politics with
its fair and
balanced credo.
FOX News would have an
explicitly conservative
take to its coverage.
NARRATOR: Fair and balanced.
P.J. TOBIA: Ailes said this in a
2004 interview
with C-SPAN's Brian Lamb:
ROGER AILES, FOX News Founder:
Well, we have
changed the business a little
bit.
I think FOX News has come on the
scene and
identified itself as fair and
balanced.
We try to do that every day.
I think others, instead of
trying to get more
fair and balanced, probably are
offended by
that or worried about it.
P.J. TOBIA: Early in his career,
Ailes helped
launch a little-known big band
singer named
Mike Douglas, who became a
household name
with his afternoon variety show.
It was there that Ailes first
met Richard
Nixon.
Ailes offered to become Nixon's
media adviser
before he ran for president a
second time
in 1968.
He would go on to advise and
work for the
winning candidacies of Ronald
Reagan and George
H.W. Bush.
Mr. Bush tweeted today: "He
wasn't perfect,
but Roger Ailes was my friend
and I loved
him.
Not sure I would have been
president without
his great talent.
Loyal help.
Rest in peace."
Ailes also served as a one-time
adviser to
Donald Trump.
After a falling out, the two men
mended fences
in 2016, when Ailes jumped on
the Trump bandwagon.
At FOX, Ailes reigned supreme
for two decades.
But after sexual harassment
allegations by
former anchor Gretchen Carlson
became public
last year, Ailes' career and
legacy began
to unravel.
More than 20 other women came
forward with
allegations.
So far, 21st Century FOX has
paid $45 million
in relation to those charges,
with more pending.
21st Century Fox corporate head
Rupert Murdoch
and his sons ousted Ailes last
July, only
hours before Mr. Trump accepted
the GOP nomination.
Roger Ailes was 77 years old.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Late today, the
medical examiner
in Palm Beach County, Florida,
said that Ailes
died of bleeding on the brain.
The U.S. Treasury Department is
imposing new
sanctions on Venezuela.
They're aimed at the chief judge
and seven
other members of the country's
Supreme Court.
It's retaliation for the court's
rulings against
the opposition-controlled
congress.
The rulings have triggered
ongoing protests
and violence.
The Trump administration
formally alerted
Congress today of its plans to
renegotiate
NAFTA, the North American Free
Trade Agreement.
The president initially
threatened to pull
out of the 23-year-old trade
pact with Mexico
and Canada.
He has said since that he hopes
to negotiate
a better deal.
Today's announcement came as
Secretary of
State Rex Tillerson and his
Mexican counterpart
met in Washington.
REX TILLERSON, U.S. Secretary of
State: Trade
is an important, extremely
important issue.
And I think the filing of the
authorities
with the Congress this morning
to start moving
towards fast-track authority is
a very positive
move.
LUIS VIDEGARAY, Mexican Foreign
Minister:
The government of Mexico
welcomes this development.
We are prepared.
We are ready just to work
together with both
the governments of the U.S. and
Canada to
make our trade agreement better.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The announcement
sets in motion
90 days of consultations with
Congress.
And then negotiations begin with
Mexico and
Canada.
And on Wall Street, stocks
rallied a minor
drubbing after yesterday's
drubbing.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 56
points to close at 20663.
The Nasdaq rose nearly 44, and
the S&P 500
added eight.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
what's at
stake during President Trump's
trip abroad;
the choice between moderate and
hard-line
candidates in Iran's upcoming
presidential
election; and much more.
We return now to the
investigations into Russia's
role in last year's election and
the relationship,
any relationship with the Trump
campaign.
Senator Angus King of Maine
attended this
afternoon's closed briefing with
the deputy
attorney general, Rod
Rosenstein.
Senator King sits on the Select
Committee
on Intelligence.
And he joins us now from Capitol
Hill.
Senator King, thank you very
much for joining
us.
A lot of people have many
questions for the
deputy attorney general.
What did you learn from today's
briefing?
SEN.
ANGUS KING (I), Maine: Well, I
think there
were a couple things that we
learned.
One that came out actually in
his opening
statement, which I think caught
everybody
a little bit by surprise, he
said that he
learned that President Trump had
intended
to fire Director Comey before he
wrote the
memo, which, of course, was then
used later
on by the White House and by
President Trump
in his letter to Director Comey
as the justification
for the firing.
And I -- he was asked about it
two or three
times, as I mentioned.
As I say, he mentioned it in his
opening statement.
And that was a little bit
surprising.
I mean, we knew that the White
House changed
the justification for the
firing.
President Trump changed it
himself two or
three days later, but, at the
time, the whole
argument was the firing was
based upon the
memo.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
SEN.
ANGUS KING: Now we learn that
the firing decision
had been made before the memo
was written.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Did he then
explain, did the
deputy attorney general go on to
explain why
he did so, why he wrote the
memo?
SEN.
ANGUS KING: Well, he didn't.
He wouldn't answer questions
about any details
about why he wrote it, who wrote
it, who contributed
to it, whether there were edits.
And this was sort of second
thing that came
out of the meeting, because he
said this may
be part of Robert Mueller's
investigation.
This whole -- the whole firing
of Comey may
be part of that investigation,
so, therefore,
I can't talk about it, which I
think that
was also somewhat surprising,
that he views
the scope of Robert Mueller's
investigation
as pretty broad, which now
apparently includes
the circumstances surrounding
the firing of
James Comey.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator, this is
a subjective
question, but did you get the
sense from Mr.
Rosenstein that he -- he feels
he may have
done something wrong here?
SEN.
ANGUS KING: No, I didn't.
He was -- he wasn't apologetic.
He was quite assertive,
actually.
And he stood by his memo.
But then, when he was pressed
about, why did
you write it and how did it
actually come
about and who talked about it,
that's when
he said, I can't answer that
question, and
he said that probably 10 times,
because this
may be part of Robert Mueller's
FBI investigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What does that
tell you, though,
Senator, about what -- how much
the Senate
Intelligence Committee, any of
these investigative
committees, are going to be able
to find out,
if that's going to be the answer
you get as
you try to get to the bottom of
some of these
hard questions?
SEN.
ANGUS KING: Well, I don't think
that's necessarily
the answer that we're going to
get, particularly
in a closed session.
By the way, I'm not sure why
this session
today was closed.
I don't think there was anything
said that
was classified.
At least I didn't hear it.
And he stated himself that the
opening statement
that I cited wasn't classified.
But we will be having sessions.
In fact, one of the things -- I
talked with
one of the members of the
committee right
after the meeting this
afternoon.
Our committee has to sit down
with Robert
Mueller and talk about how we
will coordinate
the two investigations.
We don't want to get in each
other's way.
We don't want to offer immunity
or have them
offer immunity that would
compromise either
one of our investigations.
But, basically, you have two
investigations
running in parallel.
Their -- the FBI is a law
enforcement agency,
and they're looking at whether
laws were broken
in this country.
We're a fact-finding agency, and
-- or committee,
and we will -- the -- as I say,
the two investigations
are running in the same
direction, and we're
going to try to deconflict and
be in touch
as we move forward.
And I think that's certainly
possible to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, that's my
question.
How concerned are you that
you're going to
able to do that, given what
you're already
discovering today from Mr.
Rosenstein?
SEN.
ANGUS KING: Well, he was
reluctant -- I mean,
he wasn't answering questions
because he said
this may be part of this
investigation.
We're going to be talking to
Director Mueller
about the investigation.
So I think we're going to be
able to get the
information that we need.
We have gotten good cooperation
thus far from
the FBI, from the CIA, from the
NSA, from
the other intelligence agencies.
I don't think this is going to
be a problem.
But it's one that it's going to
take some
discussion and some work in
order to be sure
that we're -- we are not
stepping on each
other's toes, because we're all
headed in
the same direction.
And, remember, this
investigation, all the
attention is to the Trump
campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
SEN.
ANGUS KING: This is about a
foreign government
interfering in our democratic
process.
And let's always remember that
that's what
it is, and that's why it's so
important.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But is it also
about a potential
obstruction of justice or a
potential effort
to stop an investigation that
might be harming
the president?
SEN.
ANGUS KING: Well, I'm not going
to -- I mean,
that's going to be part of the
investigation.
That's certainly what the deputy
attorney
general indicated today, was
that the investigation
at the FBI is going to undertake
-- or is
undertaking.
It's been going on for some
time.
It's going to be very broad in
scope.
So, all the facts are going to
be on the table.
And whenever you begin an
investigation, you
never know exactly where it's
going to lead
or what the facts are going to
be.
But my goal is to get the
information so that,
ultimately, we can report to the
American
people -- and hopefully a lot of
our hearings
will be in public, so the
American people
will travel this road with us --
what happened,
why it happened, how it
happened, and, most
importantly, how do we keep it
from happening
again?
Judy, this is not a one-off for
the Russians.
This is what they do.
And they are going to try to
continue to be
involved in our democratic
process here, whether
it's state election processes or
national
elections.
And we have got to figure out
how to defend
ourselves.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, so just
finally, Senator,
today, President Trump said
again that he
has no business dealings with
Russia, no connections
with Russia.
Is that in any sense reassuring
to you?
SEN.
ANGUS KING: Well, if that were
the end of
the matter, we would all have to
say we're
not going to do these
investigations.
But, clearly, there are --
there's information
that we need to get to the
bottom of.
And so I'm delighted that he
takes that position,
and hope that he's proven
correct.
In fact, if that's true, if he
is correct,
then they should be falling all
over themselves
to help with us this
investigation in order
to clear the air on this.
But we have got to follow the
facts in order
to reassure the American people
as to what
went on here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, as I'm sure
you know,
the president today called it
all a witch-hunt,
said that people are after
information that
he said is a big waste of time.
SEN.
ANGUS KING: I wouldn't
participate in a witch-hunt,
Judy, nor would I participate in
a whitewash.
This is a very serious matter.
And it deserves serious work and
consideration.
And that's what we're going to
do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator Angus
King, a member
of the Senate Intelligence
Committee, Senator,
thank you.
SEN.
ANGUS KING: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump,
as we have
been reporting, leaves tomorrow
for his first
overseas trip, and it's a long,
intense schedule.
He will travel to Saudi Arabia,
Israel, the
West Bank, the Vatican for an
audience with
the pope, on to NATO
headquarters in Brussels,
and, finally, next Friday, to
Sicily for a
G7 meeting.
A short time ago, I spoke to two
people with
lengthy experience in American
diplomacy and
foreign affairs, former
Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright, who served
in the Bill
Clinton administration, and
Stephen Hadley,
who was George W. Bush's
national security
adviser.
I started by asking Secretary
Albright about
her expectations for the
president's ambitious
trip.
MADELEINE ALBRIGHT, Former U.S.
Secretary
of State: Well, I think it's a
very complicated
trip.
Just think about it, going to
Saudi Arabia,
meeting with a lot of Muslim
leaders, as well
as the leadership there, then in
Israel, then
meeting with President Abbas,
then going to
Rome, the Vatican, to meet with
the pope,
then going to NATO, then the G7.
What could possibly go wrong?
And it is a very tiring trip.
And I think the question is,
what is the purpose
of it in terms of showing
support for what's
going on in the Middle East?
And I think the question is what
they want
to accomplish.
But I think it has -- I don't
think we should
have a low bar for it, however,
because there's
an awful lot that needs to be
done.
It's just a very long trip.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you think,
Steve Hadley,
that the possibilities for
success are greater
than the pitfalls?
I'm reading a lot in the
coverage of -- running
up to the trip that the
expectation is there
are many places where there
could be a problem.
STEPHEN HADLEY, Former U.S.
National Security
Adviser: Well, yes and no.
I mean, it will be the first
time that the
world will see President Trump
as president
on the world stage.
It's important that it succeeds
for him and
for our country that it
succeeds.
I think the first part of the
trip, you know,
the people in the Middle East
really want
to have a strong relationship
with this administration,
want it -- our policy to go in a
little bit
of a different direction, being
a little more
confrontational with Iran, being
a little
more aggressive against ISIS,
reconnecting
with the traditional allies.
And so I think Israel, Saudi,
the Palestinians,
they all have an interest in
making this trip
successful for their own
purposes.
And, you know, meeting with the
pope, you
know, is usually a win for any
president.
So, I think the first half of
the trip ought
to go pretty well.
More concerned about late in the
trip, when
the president's a little tired,
more problematic
meeting with the E.U., meeting
with NATO.
G7, again, probably ought to be
a little downhill
because it's with our
traditional friends
and allies.
So, it's -- but it's going to be
grueling.
It's a long period of time.
The president hasn't done this
kind of trip
as president.
The days are long and the
agenda.
So, it's going to be -- this is
not easy.
But he's someone who, you know,
knows how
to be in front of the camera,
and is comfortable
being in that position.
So, I think it will probably go
pretty well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Secretary
Albright, so, while
the president is taking off on
this trip,
a lot of controversy he's
leaving behind here
at home over the firing of the
FBI director,
the naming of a special counsel
to look into
the Russia -- potential Russia
connections
between his campaign, the
leaking, alleged
leaking of classified
information to Russian
officials by the president
himself.
How much does all that back home
hang over
a trip when a president travels?
MADELEINE ALBRIGHT: I think it
definitely
does hang on it.
But the other part that I think
people don't
recognize often, you take press
with you,
and it's American press.
And I know from various times
that I traveled
is issues that are going on at
home are asked
by the American reporters.
And so it's very hard to
insulate yourself
from that.
And the question will be, I
think he can probably
be very calm in terms of talking
about what
the foreign policy agenda is.
He may get irritated at some of
the ways that
the questions are asked about
what's going
on at home.
And then it isn't as if the
Russians are just
going to be silent.
They are having a very good time
kind of observing
the turbulence that's going on.
And something that you ran
yesterday, it was
very clear that they said they
looked at the
turbulence of information with
pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stephen Hadley,
what about
this question about so much
smoke, controversy
here at home?
How much do those headlines and
those -- does
that follow him, the president,
when he travels?
STEPHEN HADLEY: As Madeleine
says, it follows
him, because he takes a press
corps with him.
And I think, in all these trips,
the press
is more interested in asking the
president
questions about the issues that
are driving
the debate in Washington, and
less interested
in asking about the trip, which
is the challenge,
to try to get their message
through in terms
of this trip.
And they will do it by what the
president
says, about the meetings, about
the visuals,
about the deliverables from --
come to the
trip.
But the challenge will be to get
the message
from the trip and the success
they hope to
get from this -- the trip to
make it back
to the United States and back to
the American
people, over the effort by the
press to make
it all about what's going on in
Washington.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, one of the
things -- I
was at a briefing at the White
House today,
Secretary Albright, and they are
talking about,
you know, how pleased they are
to be bringing
together so many Muslim
countries to step
up the fight against terrorism.
If that's what they're able to
do with this
meeting in Saudi Arabia, how
significant is
that?
MADELEINE ALBRIGHT: Well, I
think it would
be significant, but it's not
easy.
And, basically, if they have all
the Muslims,
there will be Sunni and Shia,
which is then
reflected in their relationship
with Iran.
Iran will be a sub-subject, no
matter what,
basically it's basically -- I
think, whenever
we have been with the Saudis, it
is very clear
that that is their number one
nemesis.
And so the question is how the
president works
his way through that.
I do think that what Steve said
is absolutely
right, is they are -- the Saudis
want to have
a good meeting.
They are about to get a very
large deliverable,
which is an arms sale.
And then they want to be the
center of new
activity.
Actually, I think, Steve, they
might have
read our report, in terms of...
(LAUGHTER)
MADELEINE ALBRIGHT: ... we were
talking about
the importance of having a
regional organization.
They are talking, and so is the
president,
about doing something about
that.
So they do want to make it work.
But the Muslim part of this is
complicated,
especially since there are
Muslims who believe
that President Trump doesn't
like Muslims.
And I -- if I were a journalist,
I would ask
about the ban.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, and which
the president
talked about during the
campaign, but has
soft-pedaled as president.
Steve Hadley, if -- again, if
the administration
is able to pull together of
something together
in the way of an announcement
from a group
of Muslim countries that they
are spending
more on counterterrorism, how
significant?
STEPHEN HADLEY: I think it will
be significant.
And I think what the president
is going to
try to do -- and I think one of
the most important
pieces of this trip, I
understand he's going
to give a speech in Saudi
Arabia.
I think that speech will be very
important.
I think what they want to do is
to show that
they are working with and
rallying the Muslim
world to be in solidarity
against the extremists,
to have the capabilities to cut
off their
money, and to really be in
solidarity, and
committed in a way that many
Americans think
Muslim countries in that region
have not been
committed against terrorism.
If he can come back with that
message, I think
that's a win for him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is that
something, though,
that makes a difference in the
fight against
terrorism?
MADELEINE ALBRIGHT: Well, I
think it would
if it really has everybody
working together.
I do think it's very important
to get the
Muslim community to recognize
that ISIS is
-- has hijacked a religion that
is a peaceful
religion.
So -- but I think the
difficulties of writing
a speech such as this one and
kind of touching
the bases and using the right
adjectives and
a number of different things
that we have
all been through, it is a --
it's not going
to be simple.
I do think that there are
possibilities here,
the whole kind of Arab
initiative initially
on the Middle East peace
process, the extent
to which the president is
willing to get into
that.
But there is nothing more
dangerous than making
a mistake on some of the issues,
because they
all have a great history, and
you really do
have to study it.
I think we did.
And so that's the question about
how much
homework the president has done.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just quickly,
Steve Hadley,
that is another message coming
from the White
House today, from a White House
official,
saying they have high hopes,
that, yes, it's
just the beginning, but they do
believe they
can start to make progress on an
Israeli-Palestinian
agreement.
STEPHEN HADLEY: I think that's
right.
And I think we shouldn't have
too exaggerated
expectations of this trip.
I think you ought to think about
it as, it's
a debut for the president to
show himself
as president on the world stage,
and to try
to set the table now for some
initiatives
and strategies that will be
fully developed
in the weeks and months ahead
that might achieve
some off these objectives.
If they can do those two things,
it will be
a successful trip.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we will all
be watching
very closely.
MADELEINE ALBRIGHT: And I think
we wish him
well for the United States, for
the sake of
the United States and the Middle
East.
STEPHEN HADLEY: Absolutely.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you, both.
MADELEINE ALBRIGHT: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Secretary
Madeleine Albright,
Steve Hadley.
STEPHEN HADLEY: Nice to be with
you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The people of
Iran go to the
polls tomorrow to vote in a
controlled, but
still heated presidential
election.
From Tehran, special
correspondent Reza Sayah
reports.
REZA SAYAH: It's the closing
stretch in Iran's
presidential race.
And the capital, Tehran, is at
fever pitch,
from the streets, to sports
arenas, and campaign
headquarters.
The candidates' foot soldiers
make a final
push to win over voters.
It's an election that will pit
liberals vs.
conservatives, determine
domestic policy,
and shape Iran's relations with
the West.
Zeinab Asgharpour wants another
four years
from incumbent President Hassan
Rouhani.
ZEINAB ASGHARPOUR, Iran (through
translator):
These last days can make a huge
difference.
It's up to us to whip up
excitement.
If we do that, God willing, we
will have good
results.
REZA SAYAH: Rouhani's government
signed the
historic nuclear deal with the
U.S. and other
world powers in 2015, the first
agreement
involving Washington and Tehran
since Iran's
1979 revolution.
The deal lifted international
sanctions, giving
Iran access to global markets.
HASSAN ROUHANI, Iranian
President (through
translator): Have them tell you
what they
have done for the past 38 years.
What I have done in the past
four years is
quite clear.
REZA SAYAH: But Iran's economy
is still struggling.
The moderate reformer and his
supporters say,
let's be patient and move
forward.
HAMIDEH ASHOURI, Iran (through
translator):
Maybe we didn't have an actual
war, but there
was a domestic struggle.
We faced harsh sanctions.
People suffered to survive.
The last thing we want is to go
backwards.
REZA SAYAH: But Rouhani
supporters are nervous.
There is a serious conservative
challenge
from hard-line cleric Ebrahim
Raisi.
"Come this weekend, Rouhani is
gone," cries
rally leader Mahdi Armaghani.
MAHDI ARMAGHANI, Iran (through
translator):
We believe we are standing by
the side of
God, and God will definitely
stand by us.
REZA SAYAH: Raisi is Iran's
former top prosecutor,
linked to mass executions of
political dissidents
in 1988.
He's never been elected to
office, but is
backed by the clerical
establishment, an important
endorsement.
Some say he's being groomed to
succeed Iran's
supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei.
In campaign speeches, Raisi
accuses Rouhani
of ignoring the poor and failing
to deliver
on the promised benefits of the
nuclear agreement.
EBRAHIM RAISI, Iranian
Presidential Candidate
(through translator): Most of
our challenges
can be solved with our nation's
resources,
our potential, strong
leadership, our people's
revolutionary values.
REZA SAYAH: At this Raisi rally,
a film taunts
President Rouhani, suggesting he
sold out
his revolutionary values to cozy
up to Washington.
MORTEZA JAVID, Iran (through
translator):
All these sanctions are in
place.
We lost our dignity.
There's no doubt it's time for
change.
REZA SAYAH: Raisi's backers are
mostly conservative,
devoted to Iran's revolutionary
values and
deeply suspicious of the West.
MOGHADAM, Iran: His main
attention will be
on us, inside the border.
REZA SAYAH: Some still chant
"Death to America."
Rouhani's supporters want to
silence those
chants.
They demand social and political
reform and
better relations with the West.
They say a vote for Raisi is a
return to isolation
and confrontation.
HAMIDEH ASHOURI (through
translator): America
is bad, but it's not all bad.
If we keep fighting and beating
ourselves
up, nothing will ever get done.
REZA SAYAH: Tehran-based
political analyst
Mohammad Marandi says President
Donald Trump's
aggressive tone towards Iran,
coupled with
some U.S. sanctions still in
effect, have
put Rouhani's reelection in
jeopardy.
Just this week, the Trump
administration imposed
new sanctions against Iran over
its ballistic
missile program.
MOHAMMAD MARANDI, Political
Analyst: They
have not abided by their side of
the bargain.
And by doing so, they hurt
President Rouhani,
his credibility.
REZA SAYAH: Marandi says, no
matter who wins
the vote, U.S.-Iran relations
will remain
icy, and, he says, there is
little chance
of confrontation.
MOHAMMAD MARANDI: The Iranians
recognize that
the United States is in a very
difficult position,
that it cannot launch another
war.
I don't think that there is any
chance of
military conflict.
REZA SAYAH: In Northern Tehran
this week,
this has been a nightly ritual,
people in
cars, on foot making a lot of
noise for their
favorite candidate.
Maybe one of the most surprising
aspects this
campaign is how tolerant
security forces have
Maybe one of the most surprising
aspects this
campaign is how tolerant
security forces have
been.
People are able to gather,
demonstrate, and
chant slogans, even slogans that
were very
taboo just eight years ago.
When an estimated 25,000 Rouhani
supporters
packed Tehran's main sports
arena this week,
the loudest cheers were for Mir
Hossein Mousavi,
the reformist candidate whose
defeat in 2009
sparked mass protests by the
Green Movement.
The government crushed the
protests, but the
color green sits next to the
Rouhani campaign's
purple banners, still
symbolizing the demand
for democratic change.
No matter who voters are
supporting, their
number one demand is for the
next president
to make life more affordable.
MOHAMMAD MARANDI: I think that
the important
thing for Iranians right now is
the state
of the economy.
REZA SAYAH: Three out of 10
young Iranians
don't have jobs.
Many can't afford to get married
or buy a
home.
Rouhani wants more time to fix
the economy.
The lifting of international
sanctions increased
oil sales and curbed inflation,
but the billions
of dollars in foreign investment
President
Rouhani promised have yet to
arrive.
Raisi says he will fight
corruption, build
low-income housing, and double
cash subsidies
to the poor.
REZA SAYAH: Former banker and
economic analyst
Sadegh Samii says Iran's economy
will continue
to struggle as long as U.S.
sanctions continue
to block Iran from the
international banking
system.
SADEGH SAMII, Economic Analyst:
If I want
to transfer $1,000 to my
children to Canada
through the banking system, it's
impossible.
Even European banks are afraid
of being fined
by the U.S. Treasury if they
work with Iran.
Without the Western money,
without the Western
banking system, nothing, nothing
can possibly
function within this country.
REZA SAYAH: No incumbent
president in Iran
has failed to win a second term
since the
1979 Islamic Revolution.
Zeinab Asgharpour and fellow
Rouhani supporters
roam Tehran's streets, pleading
for voters
to keep that streak alive.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Reza
Sayah in
Tehran.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now special
correspondent Charlayne
Hunter-Gault has a story on how
a once-segregated
pocket of a small Southern town
is making
a comeback.
It's part of our Race Matters
series.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: The
city's historic
African-American business
district, known
as the Hot Corner, helped foster
commerce
in a place once steeped in
segregation.
Athens native Homer Wilson, who
owns a popular
barbershop, explains how the Hot
Corner developed
in the Jim Crow era.
HOMER WILSON, Owner, Wilson's
Styling Shop:
It was all-black from -- we call
it the bottom,
all the way down.
We're just black business.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: What
type of businesses?
HOMER WILSON: Funeral home
businesses, dentists,
lawyers, motels, you name it.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: That was
essential
for the black community, which
had few other
choices and could not use the
then white-only
businesses uptown.
Fifty-six years ago, when I was
one of first
two black students at the
University of Georgia,
I couldn't come into Athens and
go to a movie
theater like this.
I couldn't even take bowling
because the bowling
alley was here, and it was
segregated.
But after flourishing, many Hot
Corner businesses
moved to malls farther out
during the '70s
or died.
Homer Wilson held on to his
family's property,
home to Wilson's Soul Food, for
three decades.
And then:
This is your place here?
Forty-one-year-old David Eduardo
came knocking,
in search of a place to rent for
his restaurant
he calls The World Famous.
DAVID EDUARDO, Owner, The World
Famous: The
Hot Corner is a great place to
do business.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: What
drew you to it?
DAVID EDUARDO: The fact that
there was a restaurant
there before that had a strong
30-plus-year
run of success was very
encouraging.
They a had great reputation, and
we could
only hope to be half as
successful as they
were.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: So, you
went to Mr.
Wilson and said?
DAVID EDUARDO: And begged him
for the opportunity
to open up shop next door.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: And what
did you think
about that, Mr. Wilson, the
white boy coming
in?
HOMER WILSON: Well, you know, he
wasn't the
first one.
(LAUGHTER)
HOMER WILSON: So, we had a lot
of great chances
to rent it to a lot of people,
but David was
more persistent.
DAVID EDUARDO: The fact that it
is so coveted
is not lost on me.
I know that with that space
comes tremendous
responsibility and history.
So, we have to be good stewards
for the community.
I'm very, very happy that the
Wilson family
gave us the green light.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: A green
light to gentrification,
a turnoff to those who helped
build this area,
but the spreading of the welcome
mat to people
from new communities.
DAVID EDUARDO: We have cuisine
from everywhere
around the world, our live
entertainment.
On any given night, you can find
hip-hop,
comedy, singer-songwriters.
We want to be a place for
everyone, not just
anyone.
HOMER WILSON: This end of town
is coming back
to where it used to be, where we
had all this
that would go on, on our corner.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Both men
agree the
Hot Corner, rich in history,
good and bad,
is a special pace.
HOMER WILSON: There is a spirit
that hovers
over this place makes things,
people mix and
mingle different down here than
they do other
places.
This togetherness, it can work
if we can learn
to supply the right information
to people.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Like
what?
HOMER WILSON: It's all right to
be white.
It's all right to be black.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID EDUARDO: Amen.
I would encourage folks to just
get out of
their comfort zone.
Folks from all cultural
backgrounds, gender,
socioeconomic classes, they
gravitate to this
side of town.
It's a very welcoming
environment, I think.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Where
once people
were kept from mixing, now the
Hot Corner
has become a hot spot for all.
In Athens, Georgia, I'm
Charlayne Hunter-Gault
for the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: A question that
has been raised
here: Why aren't more men going
into fields
dominated by women?
Stigma is a big part of the
answer, our economics
correspondent, Paul Solman,
reported last
week.
Tonight, he focuses on one man
many might
want to emulate.
It's part of our weekly series
Making Sense.
HAROLD JOHNSON, Elementary
School Teacher:
We already got a man outside,
and I need you
to be outside, especially at
will linebacker.
PAUL SOLMAN: Harold Johnson
coaches linebackers
for the Ridge View Blazers in
Columbia, South
Carolina, where high school
football is a
rite of masculine passage.
AMOS MYLES, Football Coach: You
start getting
tired, then you start getting
lazy in your
mind-set.
Now, hey, you can't think.
You have to be focused.
You have to get control of your
breathing.
PAUL SOLMAN: Amos Myles is the
bad cop.
But Harold Johnson isn't exactly
the good
one.
HAROLD JOHNSON: Downhill first.
We don't ever attack lateral.
We're playing linebacker.
Downhill first.
PAUL SOLMAN: Pretty much every
high school
football coach is a guy, of
course.
And men are no rarity in
secondary school
classrooms either.
ANGELA BAUM, Educator: It's
about 40 percent
of male teachers at high school
level.
PAUL SOLMAN: But in elementary
school, says
educator Angela Baum, the
percentage is minuscule.
ANGELA BAUM: So, between 1
percent and 5 percent
of early childhood teachers are
male.
PAUL SOLMAN: Do you guys like
having a man
for your teacher?
STUDENTS: Yes!
PAUL SOLMAN: Their teacher is
Harold Johnson,
the linebacker coach, whose main
job turns
out to be running this second
grade classroom,
after six years teaching
kindergarten.
Early education teacher is a job
for which,
given the labor market for men,
especially
in the South, qualified guys
would be hired
right away.
Harold Johnson has taken
advantage ever since
college.
HAROLD JOHNSON: I just decided I
wanted to
be an early childhood major.
PAUL SOLMAN: Smart move, he
learned, as good
male gigs were proving ever
harder to come
by in the wake of the crash of
'08.
HAROLD JOHNSON: The dean of the
colleges came
in to just greet all the
freshmen and stuff,
and he kind of walked in, and he
looked around,
and he was giving his speech.
He just stopped me.
His speech was like, hey that
guy right there
is going to get a job before all
you all.
And so I just laughed.
And I'm looking round, like, me?
And he was just like, yes, it's
you.
PAUL SOLMAN: But eight years
later, coach
Johnson still has surprisingly
scant competition,
when he attends yearly childhood
conferences,
for example.
HAROLD JOHNSON: Everybody
looking like, hey
what you doing here?
You know, this isn't P.E. or
anything.
And I'm just like, I know.
It's reading and how to teach
kids how to
read.
And that's what I'm here for, to
learn that.
So...
PAUL SOLMAN: And then they get
embarrassed,
I assume?
HAROLD JOHNSON: Yes, there's
somewhat of embarrassment
and somewhat of intrigue.
They're like, what made you want
to do that,
or like, what made you want to
teach?
Same thing that made you want to
teach.
Like, you enjoy it.
Especially when I was a
kindergarten teacher,
it was definitely like, nobody
could believe
it.
It was just like a, ahhh, kind
of sympathetic
kind of situation.
PAUL SOLMAN: Oh, aren't you
sweet?
HAROLD JOHNSON: Yes, aren't you
PAUL SOLMAN: So is there
something different
about him?
Well, he's patient, more patient
than fellow
coach Amos Myles perhaps.
But even the ever so macho Myles
says:
AMOS MYLES: I think patience is
key.
With that, you have to have
patience with
kids.
It doesn't matter what level
you're on.
STUDENT: I really love my
country.
HAROLD JOHNSON: First of all,
what was happening?
Before we even got to the
passage, what was
happening?
PAUL SOLMAN: You don't think
there's a difference
in the patience required to be a
kindergarten
teacher, as opposed to, say, a
TV journalist?
(LAUGHTER)
HAROLD JOHNSON: I personally
don't.
I just feel like you got the
patience for
what you got patience for.
You hold them to a high
standard, then they
will perform.
A lot of times, it's like, oh,
they're only
5, they're only 5.
Well, that's why you don't have
patience for
them, because you treat them
like they're
only 5.
If you treat them like, no,
you're 5, you're
not 4 anymore, you know how to
do this, then
you get a better result.
So I think it's just -- the mind
frame of
going into it is one thing.
People say patience, but I think
it's not
really patience.
Just, you got to teach what you
want to happen.
PAUL SOLMAN: So what Johnson
seems to have
is a different mind frame.
HAROLD JOHNSON: I feel like that
one thing
people just having the wrong
impression.
Just, oh, they're little kids,
they're dirty,
they got snot hanging out, they
don't know
how to tie their shoes, they
always ask for
something, always whining.
And I always tell them, OK, I'm
pretty sure
you have got a co-worker there
always asking
you for stuff, that's always
aggravating,
that always, maybe not being
dirty, might
have snot running out their nose
too.
She was too smart at that
school.
She don't have any way to help
her.
PAUL SOLMAN: In fact, what
struck me after
spending a day with Harold
Johnson is that,
while he's exceptional at his
job, he's much
like the best side of any of us,
and his gender
is a help, not a hindrance.
STUDENT: Boy teachers are more
nice, and they
understand more, and they're not
as mean as
girl teachers.
STUDENT: Yes, exactly.
PAUL SOLMAN: They understand you
better because
you're a boy and they're men?
STUDENT: Yes.
PAUL SOLMAN: Now, girls, in my
experience,
are lots of fun.
So, I have two daughters.
They're a lot of fun.
So why is the boy teacher more
fun than the
girl teacher?
STUDENT: Because boys do more
awesome stuff
than girls.
STUDENT: No!
PAUL SOLMAN: On behalf of you
girls, I do
not think boys do more awesome
stuff than
girls.
But educator Angela Baum says
male teachers
do bring something different to
the table,
or to the floor.
ANGELA BAUM: Some experts
suggest that perhaps
men play with children
differently than women
do.
So, men may be more likely to
engage in what
we call rough-and-tumble play.
That's that vigorous chasing,
wrestling kind
of play.
And that's good for young
children, both young
boys and young girls.
PAUL SOLMAN: There's one last
aspect of Johnson's
teaching worth mentioning,
especially for
a Making Sense segment.
He teaches economics to second
graders, including
lessons in managing a work
force.
HAROLD JOHNSON: We did supply
and demand,
and then we talked about wants
and needs.
We brought the materials to make
something,
so they had instructions.
So one was a sugar cookie, one
was some cocoa
mix, one was a winter mix.
And so they had a factory
assembly line.
So, somebody got behind.
And so, you know, the people at
the front
was finished, the people at the
back were
overworked, and the person in
the middle was
kind of slowing down.
So the people at the end, they
were like,
well, can we get some help?
I was like, no, they finished
their job.
So, then they really got
frustrated with the
middle people.
I asked them, well, how did that
feel?
And they was like, man, that's
hard work.
There's a lot of pressure on
you.
And I was like, and imagine, you
all was making
sugar cookies.
Imagine if you really was doing
something,
building a car or something.
So, we talked about that.
PAUL SOLMAN: OK, one last
question for those
men out there who might possibly
be considering
if this job is for you.
How gratifying is this work?
HAROLD JOHNSON: Oh,
tremendously.
I think the thing that I enjoy
the most is
when you see a kid have the aha
moment or
either change their whole
perception of something.
Like, I have seen boys who hated
reading are
running to go read first.
And so it's just like, man, you
know, I had
something to do with that.
Or if I can take this 180 days
and make a
lifetime of difference, then
that's all worth
it.
That's all worth it for me.
PAUL SOLMAN: For the "PBS
NewsHour" at Lake
Carolina Elementary School in
Blythewood,
South Carolina, I'm economics
correspondent
Paul Solman.
Brief But Spectacular
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to another in
our Brief
But Spectacular series.
Tonight, we hear from Michael
Eric Dyson.
He teaches at Georgetown and is
the author
of "Tears We Cannot Stop: A
Sermon to White
America."
MICHAEL ERIC DYSON, Author,
"Tears We Cannot
Stop: A Sermon to White
America": One of the
greatest privileges of being
white in this
country is to encounter a police
person on
the street and live to tell
about it.
When many people say, let's get
rid of political
correctness, that's a shorthand
for, let me
keep on being bigoted the way I
was before.
As the great philosopher Shawn
Carter said,
you was who you was before you
got here, player,
and you might change, but that's
just the
top layer.
When you think about want
collective white
fragility of many white
Americans, you know,
black people, brown people, red,
yellow people,
you know what we do?
I'm going to break a secret to
you.
We're very cautious and careful
about how
you might interpret things,
because you're
very fragile.
Your feelings might get hurt.
You have had 44 of 45
presidents.
Most CEOs of American Fortune
500 companies
have been white.
Where are the tears of white
America coming
from?
To be white is to be seen as,
I'm just a human
being.
I'm just an American.
Why can't you guys do the same?
So, many white brothers and
sisters don't
understand they possess a race.
When you hear gender, what do we
think?
Oh, that must be the women.
We don't think, hey, I possess a
masculinity.
And, often, it's a toxic
Many white brothers and sisters,
when they
hear the issue of race, they
think the other.
They never think themselves.
It was the great, late Gore
Vidal who said,
we live in the United States of
amnesia.
So, America is obsessed with
history when,
what?
It's a reenactment of the Civil
War, some
battle that was lost in the
South.
But when it's about black
history, why don't
you people get over that?
Stop obsessing about slavery.
Stop talking about reparations.
Stop speaking about historical
repression.
Talk about what's going on now.
When it makes America look
great, claps, applause.
When it doesn't, get out of my
face.
Stop living in the past.
My role is, for many
communities, a paid pest.
That's what I do.
I'm a professor.
So, I get paid to think about
stuff that is
pestiferous.
I try to use humor.
I try to use self-deprecation,
but the ultimate
goal is the same.
Can we challenge the forces of
unconscious
white privilege and implicit
bias to come
out of the closet and to be held
accountable?
That's my job.
One of my white students, after
reading a
book that horrendously detailed
the tragedies
and horrors of white violence
against black
people, said, "For the first
time in my life,
I feel ashamed to be white."
I didn't want him to get stuck
in a pocket
of misery and guilt, because
white guilt ultimately
will not fix anything.
You're going to get into circles
that I will
never get into.
You're going to go home to
Thanksgiving.
Go home and talk to granny, not
before you
eat the turkey or the stuffing
or the pumpkin
pie.
But after, then say to her, you
know what,
I have got black and brown and
red and yellow
friends, and it's not what you
say.
Or say to your cousin and your
uncle, this
is not how it goes down.
And when we do that, we can get
rid of the
amnesia that has blocked a white
grappling
with its own problems and
issues, and tell
the truth about race in America.
My name is Michael Eric Dyson.
And this is my Brief But
Spectacular challenge
to white America.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can watch
additional
Brief But Spectacular episodes
on our Web
site.
That's PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.